hi guys I'm Laura Vitale and on this
episode of Laura to kitchen I want to
share with you one of my favorite what I
call fancy sandwiches it's something
that make once in a while for my husband
and I and it's a real treat but I love
getting this any time you like a French
cafe or a French bistro
it's a croque monsieur it's really a
French ham and cheese sandwich
not to be confused with a Monte Cristo
that's a different kind of sandwich is i
that's a different kind of sandwich I
often hear people confuse the two
this is a croque monsieur and in a
different recipe in a different video I
will show you how to make a Monte Cristo
but the ingredients you'll need aren't
very many and are not any fancy
ingredients you'll need some I've got
some Swiss here but you could use
Gruyere and I've got some ham this is
just deli ham and some Swiss cheese
you'll need some Parmesan Reggiano
nutmeg butter flour milk salt and pepper
Dijon mustard and some bread I'm using
my homemade honey wheat bread because it
is hearty enough to stand up to this
dish gives it a touch of sweetness with
the salty cheeses and the salty ham it's
just a really incredible combination it
really are it's amazing so but
traditionally use a white bread or like
a rustic French bread but that's what
I'm using I use different kinds of bread
all the time depending on what I have on
hand what I decided to bake you know
that week or whatnot so that's what I'm
using now I've got my oven preheated
we're preheating over about 400 degrees
and now what I'm going to do I have a
baking sheet that I've lined with some
aluminum foil and what I'm going to do
is I'm going to brush a little bit of
melted butter on both sides of my bread
because I'm going to toast this I want
the bread to be toasted because I feel
like it holds up to the sandwich much
better I want to toast it when it's
toasted so I'm just going to brush it on
both sides with some butter because it
gives it not only great flavor but it
also helps get nice and golden brown do
that on both sides look good I used up
all my butter great okay
I'm going to pop this into the oven for
about ten minutes or until it's really
beautiful lovely golden brown and
toasted and I'm most likely going to
flip it halfway through or just keep my
eye on it and flip it if I need to just
to make sure both sides or golden brown
and toast sticks in this little saucepan
I've got my butter melting I'm going to
add to that my flour and now what we're
making is a really quick fashion L so
really quick easy cream sauce because
traditionally Monte Cristo has bash them
out with it now don't think to yourself
I'm not going to go through all that
trouble for a ham and cheese sandwich
this literally takes minutes to do and
it is a total treat something that I
would make for the weekends or something
like that and I just added my milk and
you can see that the flour is still in
clumps but once it everything heats up
it gets to everything melts and it is
perfect and it really is one of the most
delicious fancy sandwiches when my
husband and I absolutely love it I love
this with a frisée salad with some Lord
ohms and maybe even a poached egg if I'm
feeling fancy if I'm not feeling like
doing a poached egg maybe I'll do a
quick madam which is a croque monsieur
with an egg on top I'll show you that in
a different episode but it's delicious
whoops I'm just going to let this cook
until everything thickens and I'm
waiting for that flour to pretty much
melt completely this shouldn't take very
long at all it's looking good it's nice
and thick I'm gonna add my grid
parmigiana I just created some parmesan
reggiano I'm actually gonna turn that
off and then I'm gonna add some salt and
pepper and a touch of nutmeg easy on the
nutmeg because it can go from delicious
do pumpkin pie spice it's because you
know it is a pretty strong spice so you
want to make sure that you go kind of
light on it but it does
I think add a world of a difference to
your cream sauce okay stir that in it's
going to be nice and thick because
especially well now that you've added
your cheese it's really thick I'm going
to set this aside check on my bread get
it out and assemble and we are really
close to eating actually my breads nice
and toasted so now we're ready pretty
much
to assemble I am going to take some
Dijon mustard
I love Dijon mustard I really really do
and I especially love Dijon mustard when
it comes to ham and cheese I just think
it's a fantastic it just like a match me
in heaven I have to say that Dijon
mustard and like coarse ground mustard
or my favorite so I'm going to put a
good layer on one of the pieces of bread
you can do both if you want does it
matter I'm just going to do a 1 piece of
bread I said I want it to be too too
strong and then I'm going to take some
Swiss I do one slice I'm gonna cut this
in half like that and then you take your
ham and do a couple slices of ham
because these are really thin slices
which by the way that's how I like it if
you can chitchat with your deli person
which you should be able to you can tell
them hey listen cut my ham a little bit
thinner because I don't like it to be
too thin even though I'm using a couple
of slices I really do feel like the
flavor is better if it's thinner and
just put a couple more slices on there
that you two originally thought you were
going to use hope that make sense and
then I'm going to put the other slice of
cheese on the top so it's two slices
into slices and then I go ahead and put
top now this is a knife and fork
sandwich this is not a pickup with your
hands in any kind of sandwich
now our sauce has gotten really thick
because it's been sitting here while the
bread was toasting but that's what it
does and once it goes into the oven
which by the way at this point I have my
broiler preheated I'm gonna put some of
my sauce on here it is full of
parmigiano which you guys know I love
I'm just going to smear this like so and
it looks weird but trust me it is heaven
in your mouth as soon as this comes out
of the oven it really is it gets hot and
it's bubbly and it's just fabulous then
you take one piece of cheese like so and
I'm going to pop this under the broiler
don't put this directly under the
broiler I actually put this on my lower
rack so it's kind of almost
the furthest away from the broiler so
that I can stay in there a little bit
longer to get everything heat up and
then once the cheese is bubbling and
it's melted and it's golden brown we're
ready to serve and that's it but it
isn't I'm telling you this is like a
word worthy that's how good the
sandwiches it really is in a sandwich
because you need a knife and fork to eat
it I just took these out of the oven and
look at that I mean that is just
perfection I'm going to cut into this so
that you can see smells phenomenal it is
cheesy it is just glorious it's very hot
this point but if anyone will risk
eating a hot sandwich for you guys this
checker let me get a bite of this oh I
can't wait I mean look look at the ham
over the cheese look at the bubbliness
on top it is perfection give me a second
thought because this is really hot a
bigger bar than I thought mmm
that is money hmm salty but not too
salty it's cheesy and creamy on the top
the breads nice and toasted so it really
holds the shape really really well and
that mustard it's just amazing that is
definitely a sandwich sandwich fit for
company good ol are in the kitchen I'll
come look at this recipe I hope you
enjoy spending time with me guys and I
will see you next time bye